Laniqua Webb
January 8 2015
Scalable Data Infrastructures
Activity: Problem Solving



                                         A Cat, a Parrot, and a Bag of Seed

Problem:
A man cannot get to the other side of the river by boat due to the limited amount of space for him and his belongings.
The goal is for both the man, the cat, the parrot and the bag of seed to make it to the other side of the river.

The constraints are:
1. The boat will not carry both the man and all of his belongings at the same time due to size
2. The parrot will eat the bag of seed
3. The cat will eat the parrot

The Sub Goals are:
1. Keep the parrot safe
2. Keep the bag of food safe

Possible Solutions:
1. Let the parrot fly alongside the boat to drop the cat off then go back for the seed with the parrot flying
2. Take a the bag of seed to one side while the parrot fly alongside and go back to get the cat

Solution 1:
The goals are meet as all items will make it to the other side of the river

Solution 2:
The goals are meet as there are no requirements stating that the parrot cannot fly.

Final Solution:

The man will place the bag of seed in the boat and the bird will fly alongside him. He will drop the seed off at the
other side and go back with the parrot for the cat. The parrot will then fly alongside him again and all items and
the man will be together on the other side of the river.



                                               Socks in the Dark

Problem:
There are several socks in a drawer varying in color and the individual selecting the socks cannot use light until
the selection has been made.

Goal (A)
To choose a matching pair of socks

Constraints:
1. Without light it is difficult to confirm your selection.

Sub Goals:
Choose the least amount of socks as possible to remove from the drawer
Ensure that socks are matching

Solution A:
1. Choose the total amount of socks + 1

Final Solution:
The total smallest number of socks that would need to be selected is 4. A minimum 4 socks would guarantee at
least 1 matching pair.

Example scenarios:
1black+1brown+1white+1brown=2brown socks
1white+1black+1white+1brown=2white socks
1black+1black+1brown+1brown=2black and 2 brown socks.
Since there are only 3 colors to pick the fourth color has to match one of the first 3 socks picked.

Goal (B)
To select at least 6 socks with 3 matches.

Constraints:
1. There is no light to see what you are picking up.
2. There needs to be a match for all 3 colored socks.

Solution (B)
1. Select all the socks in the drawer.
2. Select all of the socks for the 2 highest quantity color of socks.

Final Solution
Pick 10(amount of black socks)+6(amount of brown socks)+2 (at least 1 pair of white socks)
At least 18 socks would guarantee one pair of each color
If you choose at least 7 socks then they could all be black or
You could have 6 brown socks and 1 white sock which means you wouldn't have all 3 colors
The only way to guarantee that you have 1 of each color is to add the black socks(10)+ the brown socks(6)+(2)
white socks
In the event that the first 16 socks are only black or brown then the last 2 socks must be white.


                                           Predicting Fingers

Problem:
A girl is counting on her fingers using only one hand, and we need to determine which finger she will stop on.

Constraints:
1. There is only one hand being used for counting.
2. The order in which counting is done is not consistent as she does not start with the same finger each time.

Sub Goals:
1. We first must determine the amount it takes for a finger to make a round trip in counting.
2. We need to determine the counting pattern that is being used.

Possible Solutions
1. Count using fingers to see which finger the number in question lands on.
2. Calculate the difference from thumb to thumb then jump to the number in question

Each Solution meets the goals solution 1 can be more time consuming and may yield unreliable results depending on the
number in question.

Final Solutions:
A:It is easier to count by hand for this one and when doing so the number 10 lands on the First finger
B:The difference from where the thumb lands from start to finish is 8 if 50 lands on the thumb then since 50+50=100
we can say that 100 lands on the thumb.
C:To determine the finger 1000 would land on we will first solve the equation
8/1000=125
8/125=15
Now counting by hand 15 lands on the middle finger therefore 1000 lands on the middle finger